
SUGGESTED REPLY:

 

Dear Larry, Marty and Mathias,

 

You are absolutely right that insights gained from the fundamental surplus fractions
 in various matching frameworks rest on  computations of two-factor multiplicative decompositions
 in which endogenous variables show up in the first factor (Upsilon) but not in the second factor. 
Furthermore, and equally  important, all of our decompositions have resulted in upper bounds on the first factor Upsilon that
  are relatively low under consensus   calibrated ranges of exogenously given elasticities of the matching function.
 Those low upper bounds on the first factor allow us to infer that market tightness elasticities are mostly determined by 
 the second factor. Specifically,  primitives entering the fundamental surplus must be such that the inverse of the 
 fundamental surplus fraction is large.

 

Now, in one of our decompositions, the one for the Hall-Milgrom AOB model, we recognized that asymmetries in the
 probabilities of job destruction across times of bargaining and production would break our clean decomposition, but to us this  
 simply appeared to be an inessential nuisance. Therefore, as described earlier,
 we proceeded with our approximation strategy and set those probabilities equal to each other, and voilà, 
 we arrived at a clean decomposition for the AOB model and  identified the values of leisure and a firm’s cost of 
 delay in bargaining to be the critical primitives  for determining the market tightness elasticity. 
 This finding based on our approximation strategy was then confirmed in simulations of the Hall-Milgrom model away 
 from our assumed equality of job destruction rates. (And as shown in our last write-up, the same holds true for the 
 decomposition for  your version of the AOB model;  we conjecture that simulations of your model will also confirm 
  the central importance  of the values of leisure and a firm’s cost of delay in bargaining, even when you  move away from 
  our assumed equality of job destruction rates across times of bargaining and production.)

 

While we confess that  there is some ‘art’ involved in identifying fundamental surpluses in alternative models, 
we contend that plausible choices help us to get under the hood of matching frameworks and 
truly to  understand what   parameters  are important in shaping  market tightness elasticities. 
Assisting our efforts is that  fundamental surpluses  that we have derived for all the models that we have studied so far
have the intuitively attractive property of  being “upper bounds on the fraction of a job’s output that the 
invisible hand can allocate to vacancy creation.” Thus, students of financial accelerator models 
inspired by Wasmer and Weil’s assumptions with matching in both credit and labor markets will understand why
 search costs in the former market will also have to be subtracted from output to arrive at the fundamental surplus. 
 And students of AOB models will appreciate that a firm’s cost of delay in bargaining will be exploited by workers in the 
 bargaining process, thus prevening the invisible hand from instead allocating those resources into vacancy creation.

 

This perspective also helps us  understood why your decomposition for your version of the AOB model
 (even though arriving at a second factor solely in term of primitives) fails to shed light on key forces driving outcomes.
 You can say that
 nuisance relationships that emerge from your assumption of unequal job destruction rates across bargaining and production 
 cause the critical parameter of a firm’s cost of delay in bargaining to ‘bleed over’ from the second factor to the first 
 factor Upsilon. As a result, the first factor Upsilon is no longer bounded and you have de facto transferred or allocated
 the power of the fundamental surplus to that first factor Upsilon.
 This tranfer prevents you from being able to identify the critical parameters for determining the  market tightness elasticity 
 (i.e., the values of leisure and a firm’s cost of delay in bargaining).
 But, as our write-up showed, capacity to identify those critical parameters would be restored under our approximation strategy.

 

We  have tried to answer  your question. If not, please tell us.  And thanks for your patience  and thoughtfulness in pursuing
 these issues.

 

Best wishes,

Lars and Tom