
Dear Larry, Marty and Mathias,

 

Hi. Thank you for your queries.

 

First of all, let us reiterate that we find your Econometrica (online appendix) decomposition of the market tightness 
elasticity in your AOB model to be informative about which parameters need to be set sufficiently high to generate a 
high elasticity; while we also think that your latest decomposition is not informative. The selection of your Econometrica 
decomposition is guided by its proximity to the decomposition in the approximating model, and its usefulness is starkly 
illustrated in Andrea Papetti’s estimations of your model. More on this below.

 

Yes, you are correct that there is one matching model in our AER article that does not yield a clean decomposition: 
the Hall-Milgrom AOB model does not lend itself to our ideal decomposition satisfying the two desiderata that you point out. 
Nevertheless, we do discover that under equal job destruction probabilities across bargaining and production, there is such a 
clean decomposition even for that model. We proceed by using the decomposition of that approximating model to identify the 
critical parameters determining market tightness elasticity, and numerically confirm the veracity of our inference by simulating 
the Hall-Milgrom AOB model. Specifically, the approximating model correctly isolates the value of leisure and the firm’s cost of 
delay in bargaining as the critical parameters determining market tightness elasticity. We are sorry if this is not clearly enough
spelled out in our AER article.

 

Now we are arguing that that very same strategy works for your version of the AOB model. So let’s clarify the issues that
 you raise regarding our points 1-7.

 

1.       It’s good that we agree that the approximating model is indeed your model of labor dynamics under the parameter
 restriction that job destruction probabilities are equal across times of bargaining and production. In the case of different 
 job destruction probabilities, it would be helpful if we could also agree that your Econometrica decomposition is the informative
 one. By evaluating that decomposition at your equilibrium values, you will find that Upsilon=1.65 and that the inverse of the 
 fundamental surplus fraction is around 15. Besides Upsilon being close to that of the approximating model (1/sigma=1.8), 
 so are the tau coefficients in the fundamental surplus: your Econometrica decomposition yields coefficients .78 and 1.65 
 for \bar gamma and kappa, respectively, as compared to 1 and 2 in the approximating model. (Regarding the value of leisure D, 
 both decompositions attach a coefficient of one.) More on this below.

 

2.       Could you please refer to any passage in your “Econometrica paper [identifying gamma, D and kappa to be very important 
for generating very high elasticities] using the wage inertia logic.” Maybe you are thinking about section A.2 “The role of wage 
inertia in the transition from the restricted Nash to the AOB model” in the online appendix, but in that profit/wage-inertia 
decomposition neither gamma nor D appears, and kappa even seems to be discounted since it enters the “profit rate component” that 
you find to be unimportant, and hence, we are left with the “wage inertia component” that is simply backed out from (A.6).
 By itself this is not informative; it would be if you were instead to adopt and pursue what we above call
 the “Econometrica decomposition” as defined under your expression (A.6), but which you today have unfortunately abandoned.  

 

3.       Here is why Andrea Papetti’s estimations are so illuminating. Suppose that we could use neither the decomposition
 in the approximating model nor your Econometrica decomposition. Then how could we explain the dramatic parameter 
 interdependencies uncovered by Papetti in his constrained estimations of your AOB model? That is, see Papetti’s figure 4
 but don’t look at the lines marked with diamonds that show a virtually constant and small fundamental surplus fraction.
 The latter lines were computed after the estimations by using your Econometrica decomposition. Hence, those lines have
 nothing to do with how Papetti estimated your AOB model. But from the fundamental surplus perspective, they have everything 
 to do with understanding the parameter interdependencies in figure 4.

 

4.       Please note how our reasoning uses your Econometrica decomposition, as emphasized above in point 1. Hence, in your
 “estimated AOB model, where delta = 0.002, the elasticity of market tightness is equal to 24, upsilon is” 1.65 (not 7), and
 the inverse of the fundamental surplus is equal to 15 (not 3.4). Regarding your other issue regarding delta equal to .1^(-9), 
 see point 6 below.

 

5.       Yes, we agree with you that your “AOB model does a good job accounting for the data without going 
to an empirically implausible high value of the replacement ratio.” However, as we pointed out in our AER article and in RMT4, 
it would have been even better if you had also informed your readers that this freedom to choose D requires offsetting changes 
in a firm’s cost of delay in bargaining (and/or the fixed matching cost), as so amply illustrated in Papetti’s estimation findings.

 

6.       Figure 6 will indeed be revealing but a little complicated to construct (as compared to our Hall-Milgrom figure 6).
 For example, if we plug your parameter values D=0.333, gamma=0.009 (i.e., \bar gamma =60*gamma=0.54) and kappa=0.057 into the
 approximating model, you get a negative fundamental surplus and hence, an equilibrium fails to exist. (See the discussion of
 parameter restrictions in Hall and Milgrom or footnote 12 in our AER article.) Hence, given your values of D and kappa, we must
 start with a somewhat lower value of gamma for delta=0. When starting at such permissible values on the gamma axis at delta=0,
 we conjecture that the variance of unemployment will change smoothly when increasing delta. However, the exciting new part of your
 figure 6 will be values of gamma above what is permissible for an equilibrium with delta=0. You can already discern from our 
 Hall-Milgrom figure 6 how the surface gets warped in that corner of the parameter space.

Now, let’s return to your reported computation in point 4: “If we set delta to .1^(-9), we find that the elasticity of market 
tightness is equal to 198, upsilon is equal to 1.8, and the inverse fundamental surplus is equal to 109.” This is just beautiful! 
As you approach delta=0, you see how Upsilon is converging to that of the approximating model (1/sigma=1.8), and with respect to
 the fundamental surplus fraction 109^(-1)= .009, we suspect that you might be skirting the edge of non-existence of an equilibrium.

[REMARK: We had already established analytically that both of your two decompositions define second factors that converge to that
of the approximating model as delta goes to zero (the inverse of the fundamental surplus fraction). Given that limiting result, you 
have now numerically shown something that had to be true, namely, that the first factor must then also converge to that of the
 approximating model (Upsilon). The reason for this is that all of these decompositions are derived from the same steady-state
 comparative static expression (A.6).]

Our hunch is that under our conjecture figure 6 will be just fine around your estimation of the model and the message will 
be clear: i) for any further increase in the market tightness elasticity, you should increase gamma 
(for given values of D and kappa), i.e., start climbing up a slope similar to that of our Hall-Milgrom figure 6; and ii)
 variations in the job destruction probability do not have much of an effect. In addition, our conjecture is that in spite 
 of the warped surface in the upper left corner of the figure, the graph will help us appreciate why the approximating model is
 such a good predictor of the critical parameters (albeit, quantitatively, not providing exact values for what should be deemed to 
 be ‘sufficiently’ high values of D, gamma and kappa – after all, it is an approximating model). This figure 6 collection of 
 parameter perturbations promises to be a nice complement to the estimation findings of Papetti. So we hope that we will have
 convinced you to put your machinery to work to compute this new figure that we think would be so enlightening for your readers.

 

7.       We remain interested in learning about the relative performances of the Hall-Milgrom AOB model 
and your version. It could be the case that one outdoes the other; that would clearly interest model builders. 
But it could also be the case that the models perform virtually equally well. The fundamental surplus predicts the 
latter outcome except for the caveat that a fixed matching cost is much more potent in your version of the AOB model.
 Hence, the conjecture that the Hall-Milgrom AOB model can do equally well as your version, hinges on setting sufficiently
 high values for leisure and a firm’s cost of delay in bargaining (rather than a fixed matching cost). We would also be 
 eager to learn about results from such a comparative study.

 

8.       We offer this suggestion for how to execute the comparison recommended in point 7. The idea would be to make a modest
 modification of your model that will bring your  two frameworks closer to each other and to do so without having much of an effect on
 your analysis in Econometrica. Specifically, let’s convert your framework to operate on a model period based on your present
 sub-periods, i.e., on the basis of a workday defined by your present setting of M=60. (You will still of course rely on quarterly 
 data when estimating your model, but that is just a standard issue of time aggregation.) Given your exogenous quarterly
 job destruction  probability 1-rho=0.1, the new job destruction probability between periods of production would be 
 delta_prod = 1-0.9^(1/60)=0.0018,
 and you would estimate a new delta between periods of bargaining. Your bargaining protocol will stay the same: the firm extends 
 the first offer and there is a finite (even) maximum number of bargaining rounds, at the end of which the worker extends a 
 take-it-or-leave-it offer (since the firm-worker match is about to be exogenously destroyed). Our hunch is that this
 modification of your AOB model will  have at most a small effect on your earlier successful analyses, while at the same time
 yielding the big benefit
 that the only difference between your model and the Hall-Milgrom AOB model will then be  the finite number of bargaining rounds. 
 If you let your maximum number of bargaining rounds approach infinity, you converge to the Hall-Milgrom model. Also, 
 according to the fundamental surplus perspective in point 7, the abilities of the two models to fit the data will 
 approach each other  already at relatively low values of your maximum number of bargaining rounds (with the only caveat that a
 fixed matching cost is so much more potent in your model as compared to the Hall-Milgrom model).

Another benefit of this modification to your AOB model is that our approximating model would correspond 
to delta = delta_prod = 0.0018. We conjecture that your version of figure 6 will then be almost indistinguishable
 from our Hall-Milgrom figure 6. In particular, you  won’t have to deal with that annoying limit of delta going to zero
 but instead can have delta going to 0.0018 (i.e., similar to what we do in our Hall-Milgrom figure 6).

 

Please keep us posted if you undertake any of these enlightening explorations.

 